Add files via upload (#17)
tireddy2/DNS-resolver-information: draft-reddy-add-resolver-info-06.txt

Reddy & Boucadair         Expires 3 March 2023                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft          DNS Resolver Information             August 2022

   This document makes use of the terms defined in [RFC8499].

   'Encrypted DNS' refers to a DNS protocol that provides an encrypted
   channel between a DNS client and server (e.g., DoT, DoH, or DoQ).

3.  Retrieving Resolver Information

   A stub resolver that wants to retrieve the resolver information may
   use the RRtype "RESINFO" defined in this document (see Section 7.1).

   The content of the RDATA in a response to RRtype query is defined in
   Section 5.  If the resolver understands the RESINFO RRtype, the RRset
   in the Answer section MUST have exactly one record.

   The client can retrieve the resolver information using the RESINFO
   RRtype and QNAME of the domain name that is used to authenticate the
   DNS server (referred to as ADN in [I-D.ietf-add-dnr]).

   If the special use domain name "resolver.arpa" defined in
   [I-D.ietf-add-ddr] is used to discover the Encrypted DNS server, the
   client can retrieve the resolver information using the RESINFO RRtype
   and QNAME of the designated resolver.

> 4.  Format of the Resolver Information

Reviewer: check if we can sort the formatting requirements into wire and zone formats.

Author: We have the following text to discuss the format rules:

The format rules for TXT records are defined in Section 3.3.14 of the DNS specification [RFC1035] and Section 6.1 of the DNS-based Service Discovery [RFC6763].

   The resolver information uses the same format as DNS TXT records.
   The intention of using the same format as TXT records is to convey a
   small amount of useful information about a resolver.  The format
   rules for TXT records are defined in Section 3.3.14 of the DNS
   specification [RFC1035] and Section 6.1 of the DNS-based Service
   Discovery [RFC6763].  The recommendations to limit the TXT record
   size are discussed in Section 6.2 of [RFC6763].  The RESINFO RRtype
   uses key/value pairs to convey the resolver information.  Each key/
   value pair is encoded using the format rules defined in Section 6.3
   of DNS-SD [RFC6763].  Using standardized key/value syntax within the
   RESINFO RRtype makes it easier for additional keys to be defined
   later.  If an implementation sees unknown keys in a RESINFO RRtype,
   it MUST silently ignore them.  The rules for the keys is defined in
   Section 6.4 of [RFC6763].

>    All keys MUST either be defined in the IANA registry Section 7.2 or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Keys MUST either be defined in the IANA registry Section 7.2 or
```

   begin with the substring "temp-" for names defined for local use

>    only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   only. Unknown keys are silently discarded by DNS clients.
```

Author: It is already covered in the first paragraph of Section 4 with the following text:
If an DNS client sees unknown keys in a RESINFO RRtype, it MUST silently ignore them.

> 5.  Resolver Information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5.  Resolver Information Keys/Values
```

   The resolver information includes the following keys and values:

Reddy & Boucadair         Expires 3 March 2023                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft          DNS Resolver Information             August 2022

>    qnamemin:  If the DNS server supports QNAME minimisation [RFC9156] to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   qnamemin key:  If the DNS server supports QNAME minimisation [RFC9156] to
```

Author: I don't see the need to add the keyword "key".

      improve DNS privacy, the key is present.  Note that, as per the
      rules for the keys is defined in Section 6.4 of [RFC6763], if
      there is no '=' in a key, then it is a boolean attribute, simply
      identified as being present, with no value.  This is a mandatory
      attribute.

>    exterr:  If the DNS server supports extended DNS error (EDE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   exterr key:  If the DNS server supports extended DNS error (EDE)
```

      [RFC8914] to return additional information about the cause of DNS
      errors, the parameter lists the possible extended DNS error codes
      that can be returned by the DNS server.  When multiple values are

>       present, they are seperated by comma.  This is an optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      present, these values MUST be comma-separated.  This is an optional
```

      attribute.

>    infourl:  An URL that points to the generic unstructured resolver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   infourl key:  An URL that points to the generic unstructured resolver
```

      returned by the DoH server, how to report a problem) for
      troubleshooting purpose.  The server MUST support the content-type
      'text/html'.  The DNS client MUST reject the URL if the scheme is
      not "https".  The client MUST validate that both the encrypted DNS
      server and the resolver information server are owned and managed
      by the same entity by establishing a TLS connection to the domain
      name in the URL and checking if the subjectAltName entry in the
      server certificate includes the name of the encrypted DNS server.
      If this match fails, the client MUST ignore the resolver
      information.  As such, the URL should be treated only as
      diagnostic information for IT staff.  This is a mandatory
      attribute.

   New keys can be defined as per the procedure defined in Section 7.2.

>    Figure 1 shows an example of resolver information.

Reviewer: I suggest we transform this example into a record as will be published in DNS.

Author: Good point, fixed.

     qnameminimization=true
     extendeddnserror=15,16,17
     "resinfourl": "https://resolver.example.com/guide"

>                 Figure 1: An Example of Resolver Information

Reviewer: Also, update the name to make use of the keys in the spec

Author: Yes, fixed.

>   resolver.example.net. 7200  IN RESINFO qnamemin exterr=15,16,17 resinfourl:https://resolver.example.com/guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  resolver.example.net. 7200 IN RESINFO qnamemin exterr=15,16,17 resinfourl=https://resolver.example.com/guide
```

>              Figure 1: An Example of Resolver Information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             Figure 1: An Example of Resolver Information Record
```

   +==========+=========+=============================+===============+
   | qnamemin | boolean | Indicates whether           | [RFCXXXX]     |
   |          |         | qnameminimization is        |               |
   |          |         | enabled or not              |               |
   +----------+---------+-----------------------------+---------------+
   | exterr   | number  | Lists the set of extended   | [RFCXXXX]     |
   |          |         | DNS errors                  |               |
   +----------+---------+-----------------------------+---------------+
   | infourl  | string  | Provides an unstructured    | [RFCXXXX]     |
   |          |         | resolver information that   |               |
   |          |         | is used for troubleshooting |               |
   +----------+---------+-----------------------------+---------------+

                    Table 1: Initial RESINFO Registry

8.  Acknowledgments

   This specification leverages the work that has been documented in
   [I-D.pp-add-resinfo].

   Thanks to Tommy Jensen, Vittorio Bertola, Vinny Parla, Chris Box, Ben
   Schwartz, Tony Finch, Daniel Kahn Gillmor, Eric Rescorla and Shashank

>    Jain for the discussion and comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Jain for the discussion and comments. Thanks to Mark Andrews, Joe Abley, Paul Wouters, Tim Wicinski,  and Steffen Nurpmeso for the discussion on the RR formatting rules. 
```
